OSDOC-1984 Azure CSI (#31491)
openshift/openshift-docs: storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-azure.adoc

[id="persistent-storage-csi-azure-disk"]
= Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: persistent-storage-csi-azure

toc::[]

== Overview

{product-title} is capable of provisioning persistent volumes (PVs) using the Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver for Microsoft Azure Disk Storage.

:FeatureName: Azure Disk Driver Operator
include::modules/technology-preview.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Familiarity with xref:../../storage/understanding-persistent-storage.adoc#understanding-persistent-storage[persistent storage] and xref:../../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi.adoc#persistent-storage-csi[configuring CSI volumes] is recommended when working with a CSI Operator and driver.

> To create CSI-provisioned PVs that mount to Azure Disk storage assets, {product-title} installs the Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator and the Azure Disk CSI driver by default in the `openshift-cluster-csi-drivers` namespace.

Reviewer: I'd be careful here, as the CSI Driver and Operator aren't installed by default. The wording implies that it is. The administrator must enable the `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature gate to have access to this driver and operator.

Reviewer 2: Agree with @huffmanca , I'd like to add how to install the csi driver and operator here. And add a note about if we used the `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` featureset to install csi driver and operator, it's undone and will block the upgrade.

> * The _Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator_ provides a storage class by default that you can use to create persistent volume claims (PVCs). You also have the option to create the Azure storage class as described in xref:../../storage/persistent_storage/persistent-storage-azure.adoc#persistent-storage-using-azure[Persistent storage using Azure].

Reviewer: I would reword the second sentence here:

> You can create additional storage classes, as described in $LINK, to accommodate various storage profiles.

Reviewer 2: The internal provisioner is used in the $LINK, how about adding some description here, for the CSI driver, we should use the `disk.csi.azure.com` provisioner?

In case the CSI driver has different parameters from in-tree plugin, maybe we can add more reference doc: https://github.com/openshift/azure-disk-csi-driver/blob/master/docs/driver-parameters.md?

* The _Azure Disk CSI driver_ enables you to create and mount Azure Disk PVs.

include::modules/persistent-storage-csi-about.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[IMPORTANT]
====

> {product-title} defaults to using an in-tree, or non-CSI, driver to provision Azure storage. This in-tree driver will be removed in a subsequent update of {product-title}. Volumes provisioned using the existing in-tree driver are planned for migration to the CSI driver at that time.

Reviewer 2: s/provision Azure storage/provision Azure disk storage/ ?

====

> For information about dynamically provisioning Azure Disk persistent volumes in {product-title}, see xref:../../storage/persistent_storage/persistent-storage-azure.adoc#persistent-storage-using-azure[Persistent storage using Azure Disk].

Reviewer: Should we include those steps here as well, using the `managed-csi` StorageClass that's installed?

[id="persistent-storage-csi-azure-disk"]
= Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: persistent-storage-csi-azure

toc::[]

== Overview

{product-title} is capable of provisioning persistent volumes (PVs) using the Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver for Microsoft Azure Disk Storage.

:FeatureName: Azure Disk Driver Operator
include::modules/technology-preview.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Familiarity with xref:../../storage/understanding-persistent-storage.adoc#understanding-persistent-storage[persistent storage] and xref:../../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi.adoc#persistent-storage-csi[configuring CSI volumes] is recommended when working with a CSI Operator and driver.

> To create CSI-provisioned PVs that mount to Azure Disk storage assets, {product-title} installs the Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator and the Azure Disk CSI driver by default in the `openshift-cluster-csi-drivers` namespace.

Reviewer: It looks like we're still saying `by default` here.

> * The _Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator_ provides a storage class (`managed-csi`) by default that you can use to create persistent volume claims (PVCs). The Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator supports dynamic volume provisioning by allowing storage volumes to be created on-demand, eliminating the need for cluster administrators to pre-provision storage.

Reviewer: Same comment about `by default` here. Perhaps we can say, "Once this feature is enabled, a storage class is created by default...` ?

> [id="persistent-storage-csi-azure"]

Reviewer 3: s/[id="persistent-storage-csi-azure"]/[id="persistent-storage-csi-azure-disk"]

> = Azure CSI Driver Operator

Reviewer 3: s/Azure CSI/Azure Disk CSI/

include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]

> :context: persistent-storage-csi-azure

Reviewer 3: s/persistent-storage-csi-azure/persistent-storage-csi-azure-disk

Reviewer 3: Looks like this was missed in the `context` field.

toc::[]

== Overview

> {product-title} is capable of provisioning persistent volumes (PVs) using the Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver for Microsoft Azure Disk.

Reviewer 3: In this first sentence only, I suggest writing out "Microsoft Azure Disk Storage" to match their latest terminology per: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/storage/disks/
For the rest of the doc, I think just "Azure Disk" more closely matches our CSI driver terminology.

> :FeatureName: Azure Driver Operator

Reviewer 3: s/Azure Driver Operator/Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator

include::modules/technology-preview.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Familiarity with xref:../../storage/understanding-persistent-storage.adoc#understanding-persistent-storage[persistent storage] and xref:../../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi.adoc#persistent-storage-csi[configuring CSI volumes] is recommended when working with a Container Storage Interface (CSI) Operator and driver.

> ???need info on how to install???To create CSI-provisioned PVs that mount to Azure storage assets, you must manually enable the Azure CSI Driver Operator and the Azure CSI driver for deployment.

Reviewer 3: I suggest commenting out your question so it doesn't display in preview output or inadvertently later in published output. :)

> ???need info on how to install???To create CSI-provisioned PVs that mount to Azure storage assets, you must manually enable the Azure CSI Driver Operator and the Azure CSI driver for deployment.

Reviewer 3: - s/Azure storage assets/Azure Disk storage assets/
- s/Azure CSI Driver Operator and the Azure CSI driver/Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator and the Azure Disk CSI driver

After you enable the deployment, {product-title} installs the operator, driver, and necessary sidecars.

> 

Reviewer 3: extra line break

> * The _Azure CSI Driver Operator_ provides a StorageClass by default that you can use to create PVCs. You also have the option to create the Azure StorageClass as described in xref:../../storage/persistent_storage/persistent-storage-azure.adoc#persistent-storage-using-azure[Persistent storage using Azure].

Reviewer 3: s/Azure CSI/Azure Disk CSI/

> * The _Azure CSI Driver Operator_ provides a StorageClass by default that you can use to create PVCs. You also have the option to create the Azure StorageClass as described in xref:../../storage/persistent_storage/persistent-storage-azure.adoc#persistent-storage-using-azure[Persistent storage using Azure].

Reviewer 3: We recently updated how to format object references in our guidelines: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/master/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#object-references

Because of this, you can change the following:
- s/StorageClass by default/storage class by default/
- s/create the Azure StorageClass as described/create the Azure Disk storage class as described

I did notice that this guidance wasn't applied in [AWS EBS](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-ebs.html) docs, so that should probably be changed at some point as well.

Also, since "PVCs" wasn't defined before:

- s/to create PVCs./to create persistent volume claims (PVCs).

> * The _Azure CSI driver_ enables you to create and mount Azure PVs.

Reviewer 3: - s/Azure CSI driver/Azure Disk CSI driver/
- s/Azure PVs/Azure Disk PVs/ (<--I think?)

include::modules/persistent-storage-csi-about.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[IMPORTANT]
====

> {product-title} defaults to using an in-tree, or non-CSI, driver to provision Azure storage. This in-tree driver will be removed in a subsequent update of {product-title}. Volumes provisioned using the existing in-tree driver are planned for migration to the CSI driver at that time.

Reviewer 3: Just to confirm, [Azure Disk migration](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/STOR-576) is not targeted for 4.8, correct?

Author: Correct. Only Cinder and AWS EBS are in scope for migration in 4.8.

====

> For information about dynamically provisioning Azure persistent volumes in {product-title}, see xref:../../storage/persistent_storage/persistent-storage-azure.adoc#persistent-storage-using-azure[Persistent storage using Azure Block Store].

Reviewer 3: s/Azure persistent volumes/Azure Disk persistent volumes/
s/Persistent storage using Azure Block Store/Persistent storage using Azure Disk/
^^ I just noticed the h1 in this assembly (`persistent-storage-azure.adoc`) should also probably be changed to "Azure Disk" to distinguish from the separate "Azure File" doc :)

.Additional resources

> * xref:../../storage/persistent_storage/persistent-storage-azure.adoc#persistent-storage-using-azure[Persistent storage using Azure Block Store]

Reviewer 3: s/Persistent storage using Azure Block Store/Persistent storage using Azure Disk/

[id="persistent-storage-csi-azure-disk"]
= Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: persistent-storage-csi-azure

toc::[]

== Overview

{product-title} is capable of provisioning persistent volumes (PVs) using the Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver for Microsoft Azure Disk Storage.

> :FeatureName: Azure Disk Driver Operator

Reviewer 3: s/Azure Disk Driver Operator/Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator

include::modules/technology-preview.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Familiarity with xref:../../storage/understanding-persistent-storage.adoc#understanding-persistent-storage[persistent storage] and xref:../../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi.adoc#persistent-storage-csi[configuring CSI volumes] is recommended when working with a CSI Operator and driver.

> To create CSI-provisioned PVs that mount to Azure Disk storage assets, {product-title}, after this feature is enabled, installs the Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator and the Azure Disk CSI driver by default in the `openshift-cluster-csi-drivers` namespace.

Reviewer 3: Technically, the sentence seems correct but the commas/clauses trip me up a bit. Perhaps a bit of a rearrangement might help? Something like:
> To create CSI-provisioned PVs that mount to Azure Disk storage assets with this feature enabled, {product-title} installs the Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator and the Azure Disk CSI driver by default in the `openshift-cluster-csi-drivers` namespace.

Or could you just leave out the "this feature is enabled" part altogether?

Author: Nope! You cannot leave out the "feature enabled" part. Engr/QE were very definite that I had to stress that the feature has to be enabled or you don't get anything. I used your first option. Thanks!

> * The _Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator_ , after being enabled, provides a storage class (`managed-csi`) that you can use to create persistent volume claims (PVCs). The Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator supports dynamic volume provisioning by allowing storage volumes to be created on-demand, eliminating the need for cluster administrators to pre-provision storage.

Reviewer 3: Same question, could you leave out "after being enabled"? This is just describing the feature anyway. 🤷

Author: Nope, sadly. As I mentioned above QE/Engr really want to stress the enabling part because this is new for storage. If you don't enable TP, you don't get the feature. They are very worried users will trip over this.

> * The _Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator_ , after being enabled, provides a storage class (`managed-csi`) that you can use to create persistent volume claims (PVCs). The Azure Disk CSI Driver Operator supports dynamic volume provisioning by allowing storage volumes to be created on-demand, eliminating the need for cluster administrators to pre-provision storage.

Reviewer 3: ISG suggests avoiding parentheses for clarity. (Not my favorite rule!)
So maybe:
s/a storage class (`managed-csi`)/a storage class called `managed-csi`?

* The _Azure Disk CSI driver_ enables you to create and mount Azure Disk PVs.

include::modules/persistent-storage-csi-about.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[IMPORTANT]
====
{product-title} defaults to using an in-tree (non-CSI) plug-in to provision Azure Disk storage.

> Over subsequent {product-title} versions, volumes provisioned using existing in-tree plug-ins are planned for migration to their equivalent CSI driver. CSI automatic migration should be seamless. Migration does not change how you use all existing API objects (for example, PersistentVolumes, PersistentVolumeClaims, and StorageClasses). For more information about migration, see xref:../../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-migration.adoc#persistent-storage-csi-migration[CSI automatic migration].
> 
> After full migration, in-tree plug-ins will eventually be removed in later versions of {product-title}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In future {product-title} versions, volumes provisioned using existing in-tree plug-ins are planned for migration to their equivalent CSI driver. CSI automatic migration should be seamless. Migration will not change how you use all existing API objects, such as persistent volumes, persistent volume claims, and storage classes. For more information about migration, see xref:../../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-migration.adoc#persistent-storage-csi-migration[CSI automatic migration].

After full migration, in-tree plug-ins will be removed in future versions of {product-title}.
```

^ A few suggestions for readability and ISG/docs guidelines (avoid commas and use lowercase for general API refs). If you agree with the changes, you'll need to apply manually...avoid applying the suggested change directly in GH.
